.TH ZF 8 "2010-02-12" "1.10.1" "zendframework tool"

.SH NAME
zf \- command line tool for zendframework

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBzf\fR [\-\-global-opts] \fBaction-name\fR [\-\-action-opts] \fBprovider-name\fR [\-\-provider-opts] [provider parameters ...]

.SH DESCRIPTION
zf is a command line tool to create and manage zendframework projects.
.PP
The CLI, or command line tool (internally known as the console tool), is currently the primary interface for dispatching Zend_Tool  requests. With the CLI tool, developers can issue tooling requests inside the "command line window", also commonly known as a "terminal" window.

.SH OPTIONS
.IP "zf show version mode[=mini] name-included[=1]" 4
This will show the current version number of the copy of Zend Framework the zf.php tool is using.
.IP "zf show manifest" 4
This will show what information is in the tooling systems manifest. This is more important for provider developers than casual users of the tooling system.
.IP "zf create project MyProjectName" 4
The project provider is the first command you might want to run. This will setup the basic structure of your application. This is required before any of the other providers can be executed.
.IP "zf create module Blog" 4
This will create a module named Blog at application/modules/Blog, and all of the artifacts that a module will need.
.IP "zf create controller Auth" 4
This will create a controller named Auth, specifically it will create a file at application/controllers/AuthController.php with the AuthController inside.
.IP "zf create action login Auth" 4
This will create an action in an existing controller.
.IP "zf create view Auth my-script-name" 4
This will create a view script in the controller folder of Auth.
.IP "zf create model User" 4
This will create a model User.
.IP "zf create form Auth" 4
This will create a form Auth.
.IP "zf configure dbadapter adapter=Pdo_Mysql&username=test&password=test&dbname=test" 4
This will configure your database connection and is saved in your application.ini.
.IP "zf create dbtable User user" 4
This creates a Zend_Db_Table model/data file.
.IP "zf enable layout" 4
This enable layout in your application and creates necessary files and store this to your application.ini.

.SH HOMEPAGE
More information about zendframework project can be found at <\fIhttp://framework.zend.com/\fR>.

.SH AUTHOR
The development is currently coordinated by Zend Technologies Ltd. <\fIhttp://framework.zend.com\fR>.
.PP
This manual page was written by Frank Habermann <\fIlordlamer@lordlamer.de\fR>, for the Debian project (but may be used by others).
